_down in one of the shafts in the mining grounds a tapping of tools can be heard from the other side of a mine wall near where the mining automatons work, there were no known tunnels in that direction _
_the tapping stops and the other side is interested. through a hole that is formed a eye stares back, heat can be felt to leak out of the hole, the light on the other side is that of metal reaching thermal luminosity _
(not molten just so hot it gives off light)
_it looks around, the eye's pipil is around a half meter wide._

_with midesctions of one meter wide, limbs sticking out at cardianal direction these humanoid things stare with the single gaint eye in the middle of their bodies_
they eye thing is pushed away from the other side, you see the side of it, mechanical though also biological and a limb that looks like a arm, though it is attached above where the eye is.
another eye looks down the hole, some metal pushing sounds can be heard as it takes a look, evidently they are big for biological standards

the two things back off, you can see more now with midsections of four meter wide, limbs sticking out at cardinal direction these humanoid things stare with the single giant eye in the middle of their bodies, the appear to be wielding wrought pickaxes

they look like eyeballs with limbs, the heat spilling forth more readily, the source a 2 meter tall lantern looking thing that seems to be undergoing fission. The two look at each other and press the third index finger of their 14-fingered hand to the other of it's kind, seemingly these two are like mirror twins with the only difference in the iris color(edited)
they seem to be doing something... then they turn towards the guards and... the eyeball appears to be splitting open to reveal a mouth and light leaks out, even more violent heat spills from it before it bit down on the pick it is carrying after pulling it out as a sword, the other also starts doing this...

they back up down the path they came from and the one farthest away takes the lantern, they give each other a glance and hold the still glowing swords in a defensive position... it appears they don't or can't talk, it's also possible that they simply don't understand. regardless it seems like a scuffle will happen.
they don't know what to make of it and both open the mouths to intimidate the metal man back. bad breath singes the guardsmans exteriour, perhaps he will melt infront of the molten men.

the front one spits on the ground, the spit melts a round hole in it, then it turns around and starts dragging the one holding the lantern who seems to be confused. they start making thier way down the hole, one eagerly the other reluctandly. the entire encounter has been silent from their side.(edited)
as you follow the shaft starts going down, and in the direction of the Scattered Lands/Royal Empire border, before long intersections can be seen, then it seems deeper than ever the Tickwork Society has gone before, heat increasing as they follow. eventually they stop, the surrounding heat the same as the lantern's radioactive bellowing at this point and they turn around to face you once more and it also pulls out a shield by chewing on some iron-ore from the sidewall of the tunnel, perhaps it wants to face you again as it stares the guardsman down, the other rolls its eye and stadn to the side, perhaps he did something that offended?(edited)

the aggressive one readies itself whit the recently made shield and sword seemingly uninterested in the things the guest are doing. the other still waiting and looking around while bored.
the two creatures look at each other, the bored one rolls its eye again and brings the lattern, the agressive one does something to it and sets it inbetween the two groups, then it looks at the machine men.
it gets hit by a sword strike and starts a chain reaction unhinderd by whatever process was keeping it stable, the two start running after this happend

it grandly explodes collapsing the tunnels in both directions, perhaps all the way back to the start or maybe a radioactive blast-wave will shoot the tinker-toys as a cannonballs down the hole they entered from. the eye-monsters seemed to... enjoy it? they made the thing so they may fully understand what happens... fire, heat, radioactivity the standard stuff is unleashed when a tiny nuke goes off underground.
after the blast the eye-monsters rolled as balls down the hole, the whole thing being at a incline made them go extra fast downwards, after having been thrown back into the depths they were greeted by others of it's kind, the one that got it's eye done had started to try and franticly pull it out, the others laughing at the panicking twin of the two nuking pair, before they got it off the ground and helped pulling it out.

the blind one was then helped by the still seeing twin using the same thing they did before when touching hands was led towards the nearest open magma stream where it doused its head in the there, after a good hour or so it pulled it back out, half formed and half repaired it remained that way for the better time of a month.
eyes the the sound, this time holding a tungsten tool, one they them-self could not make with just mouth-forming it, the other not far away came running when it saw the actions of its twin

the one with the tool steands forwards in the way while the other from the back pulls out half-molten metal wires, they stand as a team ready to face the other monster(edited)
Two other pairs of Gemini come down from the tunnels further away, one of the pair carrying a canon-like thing together, inside some radioactivity can be detected. It seems they came with a weapon of their own, a nuclear bazooka(9 meter). it seems they are waiting for you to make the first move...(edited)
they aim the cannon to the treevore's face and set it off after you came so close, the whole thing appears to have a tungsten carbon alloy, as is the projectile that rapidly comes at the treevore after it went off

the most damaged ones rush in doing anything they can from whacking with tools to chewing anything that moves, the twin that was hiding behind the other got off without damage, despite the three front ones losing eyesight they seem to be still able to accurately attack as the twin in back was still touching the other's bacl. this was plainly visisble.

it seems the ruckus caused some attention and a pair that was around the corner of a junction further away down the holes bolt off


and what a massacre it was, the terror seeped right into the ones who ran. they went down fighting, a few even attempting to use radioactive hand-grades at the mechanical monsters they had encountered. and those that got pinned down threw up on the floor melting it and sinking though it while trying to throw the metal-men down to the ground.(edited)

the Gemini seething with rage for the twin that was lost, finally lets out a screech, uncanny to the silent race and start the hurl all of the contents of its stomach, things start coming out and the heat raises multiple factors up, itself starts almost melting and one block of somewhat-unstable plutonium shows up, 'huh... who refined that...'(edited)
it drops over unmoving, the act of intence rage already made its life final, it topples over and melts just like the rest of the things around it(edited)

things are silent around as you make your way down the holes, temperature still increasing as ever, however you start to stumble on a problem, its a maze...
after slaughtering your way down, you finally reach the edge of the crust, it seems they were rooted deeply


it seems they are all gone now... however a massive cavernous geode spreads out before it at the lowest edge, a massive pocket of stable space hanging in the semi-solid outer mantle, upon reaching it you are greeted with cannon fire the likes only happen in battles with great empires, and the source of it a castle wall without edges stretching from top to bottom, left to right. it seems they have a bastion here, also interestingly the geode seems to be the radioactive supply of their bombs and ammo
guns are pointed at anything that moves and fired at the slightest sigh of something moving, it seems there is a big one among them, old and gnarled, black skin with a double iresed eye, it stands tall over any of them before and seems pissed that someone murders the children. it carries a primitive Gatling cannon(edited)
some shells plink off the the dark-skinned amoung them as those tungsten shelled ones come rushing in, strapped with nukes and set them off as they jump into the swarms or when they can't move anymore(edited)
part of it collapses, most retreat down the geode cavern, the big one still letting out a un-ending fire from it's gat. you make your way through you are met with mines. they seem intent on going out with fire.
it throws a last grimlin-sized nuke-nade and punches its heavy weight through the back wall disappearing into the molten depths bellow, it appears the whole thing is going critical
