_Worrisome reports have been filled in the past few days, apparently a long and big worm or 
sea-serpent can be seen to surface here and there, and some of the fishing boats have gone 
missing, it warrants investigation but the situation is not critical. In other news airborne 
fishing boat sales have gone up._

The sub catches a glimpse of the 100 meter long sea-beast, the thing however does not care 
about the smaller sub and dives deep into the waters where at the bottom it disappears into 
a under-sea network of thermal vents, many enlarged to fit the beast's 7 meter girth, some of 
them appear to be newly formed. 

the heated borrow, they are met with a minor problem. It is a maze! Tunnels go every which way 
up and down, and then there is the heat as you go down....

all around you are tube-worms and pale white crabs, various alien like creatures scuttle around 
the dark most having never seen the light though very terrestrial in nature unlike the serpent

it comes back carrying a big red, somewhat rough, orb in it's mouth as it swims towards the subs.

showing off its orb, and deposits it on top of the sub's roof before swiming back away and 
taking some distance to look at the sub. 

the worm serpent seems to look at you, expecting something maybe? you do however wonder what 
the relatively giant red rock on-top of the sub is, it's big enough to fit perfectly in the 
mouth of a 100 meter long 7 meter high sea snake after all...

s the rock starts rolling off the snake stares intently at it, as it moves you hear it creak 
again the wall it sounds suspiciously glass-like. as it finally drops off completely the snake 
starts going into the direction of the rapidly sinking stone, as it catches the light of the 
high-beams the semi-transparent nature of the thing is seen... a massive gemstone.
 
you may need a new paint-job after this, your ship seems to have a few scrapes and dents from 
the not-so smooth gem.

the snake returns and is rushing with full speed towards the sub, it had a the 'ball' until 
halfway though where it dropped it. it appears that during the time the crew were stunned a 
regular variety young sea-kraken snuck up behind the sub, and the snake went full steam ahead 
into its mouth, breaking the teeth of the thing and tearing it apart from the inside, the 
water is turned a violent shade of purple.

They would later find out it was a nano-crystal composed ruby stone, something formed over 
many countless years and it must have been dug out by the gentle seagiant.

it has a seven square kilometer surface space, it reaches much deeper with all the gas 
and clouds coming from it you'd say there was a fault-line down there so who can really 
tell, the total length of the hallways reaches the hundreds of kilometers, you'd spent months 
mapping it all out, although you would now and then meet the snake and it would do its thing, 
it was the only big thing down there, a relative lonely existence, perhaps that's why it came 
above water a few times and scared fishermen to another continent.
