four meter high metallic slugs make landfall near the mountain in the new yalisean territory, slow and slimy-looking they make their lazy way towards the surrounding vegetation and start chewing on it.
a big one, twice the size of the runner up seems to direct the slug swarm and keeps watch as they graze(edited)
the big one, for now named the overseer for their function in these swarms, lets out a mushy screech. some of the smaller ones near it aim at the nodes with their front(it is presumed), swell for a bit and explode themselves releasing a highly concentrated high-speed jet of molten carbon-mixed(and what else was present in the previous meal) metal at the nodes and cargoes.The others near the corpse eat it as soon as this happened, growing in proportion to the consumed mass of it.
with the flying annoyances leaving the area to them they continue to graze, some of the ones that fed on the exploded few split themselves in two after reaching roughly enough mass to do soe with still the single overseer per large grazing group
as they move o so slowly, they leave barren soil behind them, these slow to act slugs seem to be a natural disaster in the making.
meanwhile they contiue to gnaw on the country side, almost like a flowing stream of molten muck they do their thing, perhaps making the things all explode by themselfs after fooling them works?
in a vain attempt they explode and shoot streams of metal into the oncoming concrete, they die and get eaten by neighbors, this process continues until there is only one big one left, you manage to encase it before it, what you assume it does, explodes and are left with one giant pile of a concrete encased monster.(edited)
he first encased slug shifts a little, did it just move? before some of the others do the same. it seems you've just made a new world wonder, moving concrete hills! granted the speed has been reduced to a 10 thousand fold of what it was...

drills to the scumbag, and fries-melt it to hopefully inert metal that's sucked up
*thunk* you hit a thin tungsten shell

barelly any sounds comeback, it seems to be hybernating and the concrete is a prety good insulator... wait one of them has started building up presure...
it seems to keep going, do you think it may be decomposing something?
a little while later the others are doing the same


it seems quiet, well internall to the things its but, outside nothing is happening... except for the cracking that is happening... it seems that nor using rebarb means they cant withstand the tension of the presure being build up and they begin to crack and ooze...
